---
title: Kodak Flexicolor
draft: false
tags:
 - 35mm
 - film-development
 - diy
---

I originally became interested in learning more about the Flexicolor C-41 chemistry because I found myself with **no developer**, and an abundance of leftover bleach and fix from prior kits. Ideally I'd just buy more developer alone, but this is only offered in massive lab-sized quantities of 40L or 50L. Way too much for me to handle! I started to wonder if there was a way to effectively split one large order among multiple home developers to save money and avoid wasted chems. This curiosity led me on quite the journey, but I think I finally understand how this all works, and have come up with some schemes that might make it possible for home-dev groups to take advantage of Flexicolor chemistry. 

**Disclaimer:** this is my interpretation of the information I could find. I've got zero experience working in labs, and I am no chemist. I'm trying to piece this all together based on [this forum thread](https://www.photrio.com/forum/threads/new-kodak-c41-chemicals-question.208851/), [this other thread](https://www.photrio.com/forum/threads/is-this-replenishment-scheme-going-to-cause-excess-development-strength.214349), [this Kodak PDF](https://business.kodakmoments.com/sites/default/files/wysiwyg/pro/chemistry/z131.pdf), [this reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/AnalogCommunity/comments/nma0wl/breakdown_kodak_flexicolor_c41_chemistry_versus/), various Kodak data sheets, and personal anecdotes.

## Preliminary Info

First you have to understand how the majority of the Flexicolor products differ from your typical home kit. Maybe this is common knowledge to some, but it was a mystery to me. 

In typical home kits, the developer is _one-shot_ in the sense that it is mixed, used for a certain number of rolls, and then becomes exhausted and must be tossed. In labs however, the quantities of both film and chemistry are much larger, so this kind of development wouldn't be effective or economical. Instead, labs maintain a long term working solution, which can process many rolls without needing replacement. To make this work, the solution is periodically _replenished_ with fresh developer, where the amount of replenishment needed is based on the amount rolls of film processed. A small amount of chemistry is poured out, and an equal amount of fresh chemistry is poured in. This semi-perpetual chemistry becomes a soup of developer, exhausted developer, and byproducts of film development. For this reason, it is known as **seasoned** developer👨‍🍳

The Kodak Flexicolor chemistry is mostly geared towards this type of large scale process, hence why they come in such large quantities. The expectation is that the purchaser is going to be developing a ton of rolls, and burning through chemistry very fast. If you look at the Flexicolor products listed, you'll find that with the exception of their home kit, all products come in enormous quantities. You'll also notice some potentially unfamiliar terms such as "LU LORR", "starter", and "replenisher". This isn't well explained on the product pages, but actually pretty simple once you figure it all out.
* **LU LORR:** "Low Utilization" and "LOwer Rate of Replenishment". Chemistry is specialized for lower rates of use and which require less replenishment per roll of film developed. 
* **Replenisher:** Just pure active-ingredient chemistry. Developer replenisher is just developer. Same with the bleach replenisher and others. It is the same stuff that comes in a Flexicolor kit. 
* **Starter:** Film seasoning. Literally it is just a bottle of the same type of contaminates which accumulate naturally during film development. It is added to fresh developer (replenisher) to make sure the first few batches of film are not over-developed.

## Bringing it Home

The most important thing I figured out in my research, and the basis for my schemes, is that the concentrates that come in a home-use Flexicolor Kit appear to be the **exact same** as the replenisher chemistry sold in bulk for labs. The kit's _developer_ is **just** _developer replenisher_ (no starter). Likewise with the bleach and fixer. 

This is important, because it demonstrates to us that we can probably break the normal rules w.r.t replenishment based lab chemistry, if we are developing in small tanks. For large volume film processing systems, you're pretty explicitly not supposed to develop film in pure replenisher. Yet in the home kit, this seems to be exactly what Kodak is having us do. Do they just not give a fuck about home-dev quality control? Maybe. However I think it is more likely that the risk of over-development simply doesn't apply in the small-tank context, due to the much lower volume of chemistry as compared to the quantity of film inside. 

In fact, the online instructions for the kit (but annoyingly not the physical instructions that come in the box), actually suggest that you use replenishment to keep everything fresh. For example, if I ordered the 2.5L kit, I would mix 1L of fresh dev, bleach, and fix, and then in a separate containers mix the remaining 1.5L of concentrate. The 1L bottles are used for development, and then between batches I would pour out 40ml of chemistry for each roll developed, and replace it with an equal amount from the replenishment bottles. 

So in theory, one could order the Flexicolor bulk replenisher concentrates meant for labs, and then use them at home in the exact same way. The problem of course is that the bulk quantities are way too much for one person, especially once you factor in developer oxidization. As with so many things in life, the solution is teamwork! If you can manage to get together a group of ~10 home developers, and split the order, the quantities become manageable!

We can estimate the capacity of this arrangement by looking at the advertised capacity of the Flexicolor kits. Unsurprisingly, It seems that the capacity of the chemistry is just the volume of replenisher divided by the replenishment rate. You do however need to subtract out the amount of developer used to create the initial mixture. Likewise for a 2.5L kit you get about 50 rolls with a 500ml working solution, and about 40 with a 1L working solution, which is exactly what the kit advertises. Extrapolating this to 5 liters of developer (in a 10 person split of a 50L order), that would be about 100 rolls of film per-person. 

The cost of all of this bulk chemistry currently sits at between $301 and $380 depending on shipping cost. Ordering online through CineStill, who seems to be the official online distributor, the shipping cost comes in at $76. It may be possible to get a better deal through other sellers, but lets stick to _official_ pricing for now. 

After taxes, the pricer per person becomes about $43 a head, if split 10 ways. So the cost per roll of film developed is about 43¢! A 5L Flexicolor kit ordered the same way would handle the same amount of film, but at a final cost of $126, that it has a price per roll of $1.26. I think the comparison is even more favorable when you look at other kits. Buying from Glazers, a powder CineStill kit should come in around $1.00 a roll, but probably with lower quality results, and the Bellini kit comes in at about $3.66 per roll! 

The scheme described above doesn't really help me with my excess bleach and fixer problem. However if there happens to be 6-ish others out there who also have a bunch of spare bleach and fix sitting around, I'd definitely be down to make an order of developer replenisher and try this scheme out with you all. We'd probably end up wasting some chemistry in the process, but I think the odds are good it ends up saving at least some money regardless.

## Some Additional Thoughts

The **big** asterisk on all of this is the rate at which C-41 developer tends to oxidize and go bad. 100 rolls of film is a lot. I'm pretty sure that to date, I have not even shot 100 rolls of C-41 film. Likewise it is still a tremendous task to try and make use of all of your chemistry before it goes bad. Information regarding how long your chemistry can last varies _wildly_. Even Kodak's own documentation doesn't seem consistent. In the kit instructions, it says that mixed chemistry only lasts 1 week. Yet we know this is the same chemistry used by labs, and in the Z131 data-sheet, it says just says "For best results" don't store developer longer than _6 weeks_. Meanwhile there are plenty of randos online making wild claims about keeping a seasoned developer bath going for months or even years. Ultimately, how long you're willing to keep your developer is dependent on your concern for quality control, and your confidence in your storage methods.

The good news is, that in a 10-way split, it shouldn't be possible for you to do any worse than you would with a 2.5L kit. The bulk chemistry all comes in packs of two, and the concentrate left in its original sealed container, should be shelf stable for at least a year. This means your group would receive two sets of concentrates for each chem. You open only the first set of concentrates, and everyone gets their allotment. For developer this will be 2.5L. This is a much more manageable amount, and you don't need to worry about the rest of the chemistry going bad. Since the cost per-person is lower than if buying two 2.5L kits, even if you fall short in your total usage, you're probably still coming out on top financially.

Personally, I plan to experiment with a 2.5L I recently ordered, to see if I can drag it out into the 40-50 roll range. Decent chance I'll end up screwing myself over this way, but at least then I'll know what I can and can't get away with. 

Another thing worth consideration is the LU LORR developer replenisher. What exactly is done to make this developer different, I'm not sure, but it is supposed to be more optimal for solutions which will be used with less frequency, and it has half the rate of replenishment as the standard developer. This seems to suggest that it might actually be the better option for home dev, which is certainly lower utilization, and in theory you would almost double the film capacity by volume. At the moment however, I don't know enough about this to say much more. I also think that doubling the capacity to 200 rolls per person might actually be more curse than blessing, but it is hard to say. Either way, it isn't something I want to worry about right now.